---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 3"

---

### Building Dockerfile from ALPINE Linux

#### What is dockerfile

A dockerfile is a text file that contains all the command that will be executed when invoked. To run dockerfile, users can use *docker build* that will create an automated build that executes all the commands written in the **Dockerfile**

#### Building a dockerfile

First, we need to use a text editor to create a dockerfile, here I will use **nano**

> nano dockerfile

After we created a dockerfile, we can start create content for our dockerfile

Most docker images and containers have a base linux installation. One of the idea linux base is Alpine. It's incredibly smal, like **5mb** or less, compared to **Ubuntu** (couple hundred mb), it can get really heavy when you start adding complicated codes. So, for basic installation, **Alpine** is a good start.

1. The first command need to go into docker file is **FROM** to specify the base image for the new image.

> FROM alpine 

2. The second command is **CMD**: this is an array that specifies commands that we need to execute. Here, I want to write the first line on my image "Hello World": 

> CMD ["echo", "Hello World"]

For the first docker image, let's say that's all I want to do. 

3. After finishing the dockerfile, we need to build docker image from dockerfile

> docker build . 

[.] is stand for the current directory, since we are already in the same directory of dockerfile, we just need to use the "."

4. To test out the docker image, we can start up a container from our image

> docker run --name [image-id]



