---
layout: post
title: Blog 2
---

*Hi viewer,*

Today, we will continue talking about docker and some question most asked about Docker

### Create docker container

To work with docker, the first thing we need to build is a container that can act like a single machine. Each container is built to ensure consistency across multiple platform 

### What is a Docker Image

A Docker image is a read-only template that contains a set of instructions for creating a container that can run on the Docker platform. It provides a convenient way to package up applications and preconfigured server environments, which you can use for your own private use or share publicly with other Docker users.

### What is the different between Docker container and Docker image

Images can exist without containers, whereas a container needs to run an image to exist. Therefore, containers are dependent on images and use them to construct a run-time environment and run an application. The two concepts exist as essential components (or rather phases) in the process of running a Docker container.

### How to create a Docker Image

There are two ways to create a docker image

1. Create an image from an existing container: In this case, you start with an existing image, customize it with the changes you want, then build a new image from it.
 - To build a docker image: 
 ` docker build [OPTIONS] PATH | URL | - `
 
2. Use a Dockerfile: In this case, you use a file of instructions — the Dockerfile — to specify the base image and the changes you want to make to it.