---
layout: post
title: blog 9
---

### Design a Web server for High Availability

To create an environment that can be accessed at all time is quite impossible but the higher the percent is always the better. An environment with high availability can be achieved with with many tools and services thru Amazon AWS provider. For today, we will talk about **Load Balancing** and **Fault Tolerance**

One of the main job of Load Balancing and Fault Tolerance is to ensure user can access to the server. To ensure this we have to try our best to take action for one of basic steps when creating a web server: avoid single points of failure. To do this, the first thing is to store database server on more than 1 place.

The secondary database server will be connected and provided data needed for all the application that we use on our web application. This can be achieved easily when we use AWS infrastructure. With AWS we just need to host our database server on two availibility zone (since each availability zone are physically seperated from each other and cost less than moving data accross region)

### Create a secondary **Database Server** on different Availability Zone

1. Create a second public subnet: this is the public subnet that can connect directly to the internet from the secondary database center

2. Create a second private subnet: the private subnet is where we deploy our applications, for security purposeses, private subnet is a must do (prevent internet connection to the instance, but help applications navigate to the new database center)

3. Create a second NAT Gateway: Without NAT gateway, we cannot have outbound traffic from our new location, this tool help us route the traffic to our instance securely

4. Create a private Route table: this will control how traffic navigate thru subnets

Those four steps are the basic when we first create our secondary database server. Next time we will help our application navigate to this secondary Database center in case of disaster..









